---
title: "Campmeeting in the Philippines"
date: 2011-06-16T05:48:01+00:00
draft: false
author: Light
categories: LIGHT Philippines
tags: East Asia, Philippines
---

Dear LIGHT friends,

The coming semester for the 6 months course in the Philippines is challenging, and a time once again to see the providences of our Almighty God. We are going to start the coming school year with 48 students, this is contrary from the previous number that we normally have, I believe God is sending the laborers to be trained as medical missionaries. Please pray that we will never lose the quality of teaching that the True Witness is willing to impart.

With the vast amount of trainees plus the coming volunteer teachers we are also soliciting your prayers because definitely we need to build more huts for the students, 3-4 big huts are what we will be needing, the training will start July 11. We told the students that we do not have accommodations but they are willing to sacrifice just to have the training and so they are walking in faith that during the training period they will be able to help in the work education the building of new huts.

The first ever camp meeting for medical missionaries is also approaching it will happen this coming June 30-July 3, please pray for the special outpouring of the Holy Spirit during the event, and also the preparation needed, financial needs on this event.

Finally, we bring back all the glory to our Almighty God, the HOPE LPFM station  101.7 is already playing around Ilocos Norte. We praise God that we could share blessed news through music, devotional in this wonderful tool that God is using through radio.

Thanks a lot for helping us to see each other in prayers.

servant for Christ&#8217;s sake,  

Allan Faina