---
title: "Another update from Congo"
date: 2011-01-16T10:15:02+00:00
draft: false
author: Rodney Bowes
categories: LIGHT AFRICA
tags: Africa, Congo
---

### **“Through His servants, God designs that the sick, the unfortunate, those possessed of evil spirits, shall hear His voice. Through His human agencies He desires to be a Comforter such as the world knows not.” Desire of Ages p. 351**

Our LIGHT team arrived safely from America/Canada and Europe to Kisangani. The trip was long but we were really happy and thankful to have made it safely. We were very much surprised at what we found here. We thought we would somehow be in the jungle in little shabby huts and so on, but the compound here is very nice and well arranged. There are freshly made buildings – a cafeteria, two boys’ dormitories, an office, a girls’ dormitory, a big classroom, four houses for the missionaries from overseas, a shop for mechanics and for woodworking and lands on 50 hectares. There is electricity and even Internet connection from your room if you have wireless. They have their own pump to dig in the ground and find water wells and they make their own bricks for the construction work (this is an amazing process!). This is very much “civilized” and we have no acclimation problem.

Our work started right the next day with Orientation and teaching. There are 49 evangelists who came for an intensive ten-days training in medical missionary work (Jan. 5-15) and more than 41 students who are following the whole 2 months program to be trained and eventually hired as Bible workers. More than 20 more will join them at the end of the week. Some students drove 2 weeks with their bicycles from remote places to come and get the training; we have a pygmy student coming next week and some driving days on a boat to come to our place here. This is amazing!

At the end of their training they receive a set of Bible studies in Lingala and Swahili, a bicycle, a radio and an unreached field to work. The D.R.C. is a huge land in Central Africa with a population of more than 60 millions. The work of C.F.M. focuses on the Congo River Basin in the north and northern east. This represents about 15 million people, 90% of them being unreached with the Gospel. The country has been under the grip of the devil for centuries. The Bible workers go to the different fields that have been allotted to tem, find a place to live (or build their own little house out of bamboos and mud) and stay there the time needed to plant a well-functioning church. Contrary to what we might think, the fields are hard to penetrate. The workers have to face major challenges &#8211; either hard secularism or witchcraft or idolatry (people being worshipped as God). One of them was giving the testimony that the night after he arrived, the sorcerer of the village came and made a circle with blood around his hut and told him he had seven days to live otherwise his children will die and then himself. The church planter and his family were praying hard in the home and at the end of the seven days the son of the sorcerer died. He came to the Bible worker and said: “The God you serve is all-powerful.” and he never bothered the Bible worker anymore. Many people came to the church after this and wanted to know who this God was who brought the sorcerer, the more terrifying and dreaded man in the village, to silence. God is at work in the D.R.C. He just needs people as channels of communication to spread His love.

“You are to be **My witnesses** upon earth, **channels through which My grace can flow for the healing of the world**.”     DA chp. 37, p. 357

A little bit about ourselves

Our team is made of:

&#8211;   Dr A. Scott Grivas (62), M.D. – originally from Texas, he is one of the medical directors of the Wildwood Lifestyle Center and Hospital (Georgia). He has been an SDA Christian for more than 20 years. After his conversion, the Lord led him to be more and more interested in HIS method of healing: a prevention-oriented medicine through lifestyle and natural remedies. He has been studying this method ever since and has a great burden of sharing it with others.

&#8211;   Bridgette Yanez (24), LVN – from California. After her graduation the Lord opened the way for her to go to the College of Health Evangelism to get acquainted with another form of “healing”. Bridgette is a lively, funny person with a sweet nature. We cannot get bored with her.

&#8211;    Sara Ross (23) – from British Columbia, Canada. After having spent two years working in an orphanage in Bolivia with GMI (David Gates’ ministry), Sara went to Wildwood to have more training in Medical missionary work in order to be more efficient wherever the Lord would send her. She was one of the brave soldiers to have decided to go to the Congo to serve there for two months. At the completion of her time here, she will go back to Bolivia for at least one year to serve as the Director of the orphanage there. Sara is our dynamic “jungle girl”; she loves walking around and with her wide blue eyes she always brings us to laugh at the breakfast or dinner table.

&#8211;      Michael Ross (20) – Sara’s brother, Michael decided out of the blue and at the great surprise of his sister to join the team at the invitation of some friends from Wildwood. Sara had been praying for her brother and in this decision she sees the Lord at work&#8230; Michael is a very nice young man, hey. He was working in Canada as a constructor and left his job to come to the Congo for 2 months. He is a big help to C.F.M. as he helps with whatever construction work that is needed around. His childlike-smile and Canadian accent (hey!) are irresistible.

&#8211;      Nadège D. Apatout (37) – from France/Guadeloupe. Trained as a Bible worker (Mission College of Evangelism) and Medical missionary (College of Health Evangelism) she has been working in different mission fields. She is the team leader.

Why did we come here to the Congo? “_Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, Here I am: send me_.” (Is. 6:8)

##### **Allow Jesus to love His people through you.**

Last Sabbath, Dr Grivas preached. It was a very inspiring sermon that reminds us of the necessity to commit our ways entirely to the Lord because we live in very special times and the Second Coming of our King Jesus Christ is round the corner. He insisted on four points we had to focus on:

1.  Study the Word of God carefully and eagerly;
2.  Spend time with people who are also aware of the times in which we live to encourage each other and pray with each other;
3.  Wrestle with the Lord in prayer to have a character like Christ (revival and reformation);
4.  Get involved with dedication and a Christlike passion in the mission field in which the Lord places us and work with everything we can and are plus His grace to advance His kingdom.

This sermon was a real call to discipleship.

Then in the afternoon Bary and Marybeth Mosier (Keith’s parents) took us to Village 15. We had to drive through the jungle (12 km) on our motorbikes during more than one hour. When we arrived there, we were confronted with a very sad vision: a young child aged 14 months in a state of malnutrition approaching death. Such a vision I had seen only in the newspapers or on advertising for Africa. His name is Louis. He has a twin sister and everything went fine until his 4
th
 month. Then he got sick and wasted away.

We tested him and found out he had malaria. The disease had been eating him up from inside and at the same time he was suffering terrible dehydration and malnutrition. Marybeth, who is a registered nurse, brought him some quinine syrup, vitamin B complex, Folic acid, iron and a kind of porridge to build him up. Louis’s arm is as big as my thumb. When he looks at you, you see his pain and something very sad: resignation. This was really heart breaking. We prayed with the family, left them with the medicine and hope and pray that they will work with little Louis. This little child looked me deep in my eyes and this shook me. I wanted to shout and cry out loud – why? Why? But this would have been in vain. I know why. Sin. Have you heard about the D
3
 seed sown in the night (Matthew 13:24-30)? Satan has sown his seed of death, destruction, disease and this affects us all – from this little Louis in the middle of nowhere to the president of the United States – only in different ways.  O wretched human beings that we are! Who shall deliver us from this seed! Thank to God in Jesus Christ for this promise of another seed who will come and “bruise the head” of Satan. This, Jesus Christ accomplished at the cross. Now Satan is a conquered foe and even if the consequences of his deeds are still very much visible on this planet, the Lord Jesus Christ has sown His seed of life within us and soon He will come to pick us up and we will live forever with Him in a place where there is no more death, destruction and disease. Soon, little Louis, very soon, we are going to see the King!

A few days ago, a gentleman called Mr. Abele was brought to our compound by someone on a bicycle. They just put him in front of the classroom on a cardboard. He had been suffering with bloody diarrhea for 4 days and could not even stand up. He had cramps in his stomach and dizzy spells. His state of dehydration was pretty serious. Keith’s first reaction was to send him back because, depending on what this gentleman had, it could have become epidemic among students and staff and very much out of control. But the idea of what Jesus would do sprang up in Keith’s mind and he came to us (Dr Grivas and team) and asked us what he could do. We did some charcoal drink (two tablespoons of charcoal powder in a cup of water) and a charcoal poultice for his abdomen and gave him a rehydration drink (8 tablespoons of sugar, 2 teaspoons of salt, 1 liter of water and a banana). The next day we checked his vital signs and his blood pressure was 70 systolic (normal number for systolic is 120). No malaria; bloody diarrhea, hypovolemia (decrease in blood volume), impossible to read his diastolic, etc. We put him on an IV drip (glucose/electrolyte solution administered directly into the venous circulation via a catheter or syringe) with a special tea made of guava and papaya leaves and a kind of local Euphorbia. This gentleman explained that he drinks the water of the river! This is where animals bathe, people go to toilets, garbage is thrown. Just put your feet in that water would cause you to be amputated, and he drinks it! He was probably full of parasites – we thought of amoeba or cholera or typhoid. We carried on with the IV and drinks. Two days after, the man did not have any cramps more in his stomach, the dizziness had almost ceased and he could open his eyes and talk. His blood pressure had reached 110 (systolic). We were really happy. We read with him **Jeremiah 30:12, 13 and 17**. He was encouraged. We are carrying on with the different treatments and prayer and will see. Some stool has been taken to make a test. We are waiting for the result. The Lord is doing mighty things for His people. He came to bring life.

Yesterday Mr. Abele is really sick again. His blood pressure dropped (75 systolic) and he is lethargic. Dr Grivas is really worried about him passing out. We do not have the right IV for him (we have D5W – which is glucose) instead of sodium and this does not bring his blood pressure up. We consulted with the leaders here for the possibility to bring him to the hospital (which is really a place for people to die). Keith went to town and brought some sodium solution for the IV. We put him on it and had prayers together. He spent the night fine and now his blood pressure went up again (80 systolic) and he was talking and sitting. He is still having some diarrhea but much less. Marybeth had his stool tested and they found out he had amoeba. We carry on with the special tea, the IV in the night, rehydration drink (1 gallon, i.e 4 liters) and prayer. Tonight they are doing some hydrotherapy (general revulsive to the abdomen and to the chest) on him. Pfff! No easy case – but nothing is impossible to the Lord.

We were reading the Bible with Dr Grivas on one of our evening devotions and he called our attention to **Matthew 8:5-13**. The special verse was verse 7. When Jesus came on our planet, He put His divine power in His pocket and used only things that are at our disposal/level. In verse 7 he has NO doubt that the servant of the centurion is going to be healed. Why? We were reflecting upon the fact that Jesus knew the power of His Father; He knew the character of His Father and the fact that His will for us was life, healing, happiness and peace. So with this faith and trust Jesus went about doing the good that the Father wanted for each individual. This was something for us!  We finished on Paul’s prayer in **Ephesians 1:16-23**. The main word for God’s power can be translated “dynamite”. God’s power is infinite to do good on this planet. He wants to use us as channel of communication to spread His life-giving virtue. We need this huge, enormous mustard-size faith …

**“There is no limit to the usefulness of one who, putting self aside, makes room for the working of the Holy Spirit upon his heart, and lives a life wholly consecrated to God.” MH59**

This text is our prayer as we are serving here in the Congo. Please pray for us that we are a true blessing for the people here with the things that _the Lord_ wants to give them and at the same time that our hearts are more and more open to the working of the Holy Spirit so that we have a character like Christ’s.

~contents of this post are taken from an email received from Nadège Apatout